# Advent of Cyber 2025 - Day 2 Writeup

This challenge was about planning and executing a phishing test as part of the TBFC red team.
I followed the steps to set up a fake login page, send a phishing email, and capture credentials.



## Solution

I began by starting both the AttackBox and the target machine. Once both were running, I moved into the folder that contained the phishing server script. Inside the AttackBox terminal, I went to the directory:

`cd ~/Rooms/AoC2025/Day02`

Then I started the fake login page using the script:

`./server.py`

The script started listening on port 8000, which meant the phishing page was live. To confirm what the target would see, I opened Firefox inside the AttackBox and browsed to:

* `http://127.0.0.1:8000`
  or
* `http://CONNECTION_IP:8000`

The page loaded correctly, so the trap was ready.

Next, I needed to send the phishing email. For this, I used the Social-Engineer Toolkit. I launched it by typing:

`setoolkit`

When the menu appeared, I selected:

* `1` for Social-Engineering Attacks
* `5` for Mass Mailer Attack
* `1` for E-Mail Attack Single Email Address

Then I filled in the required email fields. I targeted the address:

`factory@wareville.thm`

I chose to deliver the email using my own server and set the sender as:

* From address: `updates@flyingdeer.thm`
* From name: `Flying Deer`

For the SMTP settings, I used the target machine’s IP as the mail server and kept port 25 as default. I skipped attachments and priority settings. Then I set the subject to:

“Shipping Schedule Changes”

I typed a simple message and included the phishing link:

`http://CONNECTION_IP:8000`

After typing `END`, SET sent the email.

I went back to the server.py terminal to see if anyone entered credentials. After waiting a moment, a set of credentials appeared. The password harvested was:

**unranked-wisdom-anthem**

To check if the same password was reused, I opened Firefox again and visited:

`http://MACHINE_IP`

I logged into the factory user's mailbox using the harvested password. Inside the email portal, I found information about toy deliveries and noted the total number of toys expected for delivery:

**1984000**


## Flags / Answers

* **Password collected:** unranked-wisdom-anthem
* **Toys expected for delivery:** 1984000



## Concepts Learnt

* I learnt how social engineering relies more on human behaviour than on technical flaws, and how attackers use urgency or authority to trick users.
* I also understood how phishing pages and phishing emails are created, hosted, and delivered using tools like the Social-Engineer Toolkit.



## Incorrect Tangents

* At first, I tried to open the phishing page from the wrong interface, which didn’t work until I used the correct `CONNECTION_IP`.
* I also entered the wrong SMTP details the first time, which made the email fail to send, so I restarted the SET process and filled everything carefully.
