# Advent of Cyber 2025 - Day 1 Writeup

This challenge was about exploring a Linux system using only the CLI while following the clues McSkidy left behind.
By navigating files, checking logs, and reading hidden history, I uncovered what the attackers did on the server.


---

## Solution

When I started the machine, I was placed in a Linux terminal. I began by running basic commands like `echo` to test the shell, then used `ls` to look at the files in McSkidy’s home directory. I noticed a README file and opened it with `cat`, which hinted that a hidden guide existed.

I moved into the Guides folder using ``cd` Guides`, and since nothing showed up with a normal ``ls`, I used `ls` -la` and found a hidden file called `.guide.txt`. Reading that file told me to check the logs in `/var/log` and to use `grep` for failed logins. So I navigated there and ran ``grep` "Failed password" auth.log`, which showed a lot of failed attempts from HopSec.

The guide a`ls`o mentioned looking for eggs, so I used ``find` /home/socmas -name *egg*` and found a shell script called `eggstrike.sh`. I opened it with ``cat`` and saw that it was replacing the real wishlist with an EASTMAS one. The script used pipes, redirection, and `&&`, which helped me understand its flow.

I then tried checking `/etc/shadow`, but I wasn’t root, so I used `sudo su` to switch to root and confirmed it with `whoami`. After that, I went to `/root` and opened `.bash_history`. Inside the history file, I found the final flag left by Sir Carrotbane.

These steps helped me answer all the questions and `find` all flags.

## Flags Collected
```
THM{learning-linux-cli}

THM{sir-carrotbane-attacks}

THM{until-we-meet-again}
```


## Concepts Learnt

* I learnt how useful basic Linux commands are for exploring a system and how hidden files can hold important clues.
* I understood how too`ls` like `grep`, `find`, and shell scripts make it easier to search through logs and detect suspicious activity.



## Incorrect Tangents

* At first, I tried scrolling through huge log files using `cat` even though `grep` was the better tool.
* I a`ls`o kept trying to open protected files without switching to root, which caused unnecessary permission errors until I remembered to use `sudo su`.
